Include more digestible bits for the introduction of the book (#9)
godot-rust/gdext-book: src/index.md

Welcome to the **godot-rust book**! This is a work-in-progress user guide for **gdext**, the Rust binding for Godot 4.

If you're new to Rust, before getting started, it is highly recommended that you familiarize yourself with concepts outlined in the officially
maintained[Rust Book](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/).

To read the book about gdnative (Godot 3 binding), follow [this link](../gdnative-book).

## The basics

A **library** in its most basic form is a **package of functions**. Godot has several of its own built-in libraries, but like most other programs made

> as a creation tool, it also has the capacity to access collections of libraries made outside of Godot. Those are called **extensions**, and like most

Reviewer: Again: I would really stay on-topic. It's not relevant for the understanding that:
* Godot uses its own built-in libraries (because every non-hello-world software on this planet does this)
* Creation tools in general use other collections of libraries.

What is relevant is that Godot provides a mechanism to extend its own functionality through dynamic libraries.

Author: the main idea here was an explanation by comparison. although technical, it's probably a good idea to still have a few outside context here and there. i'd keep it since it's not as distracting as some of the other parts you pointed out.

------
maybe a minor wording change, but otherwise i'm out of ideas for this bit:

```suggestion
A **library** in its most basic form is a **package of functions**. Godot has several of its own built-in libraries, but like most other programs made
as a creation tool, it also has the capacity to extend its functionality by accessing collections of libraries made outside of Godot. Those are
```

other software, they usually come in separate files -- typically in the form of file extensions such as `.so` if you're on Linux, `.dll` if you're on
Windows, or `.dylib` on macOS.

You can expose your extension to Godot using a `.gdextension` file, which contains information about the dynamic library file's location and the
minimum required Godot version.

> The job of a binding library is that we go the other way and we instead treat Godot itself like a library, so that we can have most of the

Reviewer: Maybe use "language binding" instead of "binding library" here.

Author: change made.

interactions of the engine happen in our language of choice. In practice, Godot is still the host engine of our game, so we have to expose things back
to Godot so that it can use and make available in the editor.

gdext bridges Godot functions we can call as a library, then we build and pass it back to Godot. Godot uses all that we wrote and uses to run what we

> need into the game.

Reviewer: I'm not really sure I follow here. But I also don't think it's necessary to add more information on this, a library already implies that you can call functions and expose code. So I'd remove it.

Author: that's fair. i removed the bit then.

To read the book about gdnative (Godot 3 binding), follow [this link](../gdnative-book).

## The basics

> A **library** is in its most basic form is a **collection of functions**. Godot has several of its own built-in libraries, but like most other programs made as a creation tool, it also has the capacity to access collections of libraries made outside of Godot. Those are called **extensions**, and like most other software, they usually come in separate files -- typically in the form of file extensions such as `.so` if you're on Linux, `.dll` if you're on Windows, or `.dylib` on MacOS.

Reviewer: From Discord:
> I would probably try to be strict with terminology, otherwise we might confuse readers rather than clear up:
> - "Library" should be used in the C sense, as static or dynamic library. I don't think for the chapter it's relevant that Godot itself uses libraries (virtually any software does). So I'd focus on the dynamic library -- the GDExtension binding.
> - "Collections" almost always refers to containers and data structures. 

Also twice "is" in first sentence.

Last sentence, "[extensions] come in separate files -- typically in the form of file extensions" sounds weird. The "like most other software, they usually come in separate files" contains not much relevant information, I'd just say something like:

> Those are called **extensions** and are distributed as dynamic libraries, with file endings `.so` on Linux, `.dll` on Windows or `.dylib` on macOS.

Author: i didn't consider that as much of a problem because it's way too common where a software will have a separate file as an integral part of it.

i'm not as sure about the context of Godot in particular which is one binary, but "extensions" would otherwise imply that most other programs don't necessarily need them to have core parts functioning (it would make sense to call FFmpeg an extension for ShareX since it doesn't require for a core function, but doesn't make sense for KDEnLive which requires it for rendering.) thus, being dynamic or not won't make much difference unless the mention here is better to understand the idea. `hello-world.md` and the glossary in this file has a lot of explanation already, so i'm not sure what to do.

i changed `collections` into `packages` though. `package` has a mention in `hello-world`, so i think it makes sense.

> The way that GDExtension work is that you basically expose these files to your Godot project by using a `.gdextension` file pointing to the thing. Such file will have all the information of where that file is and which version of Godot it should be compatible with.

Reviewer: > The way that GDExtension work is that you basically expose [...] pointing to the thing.

This sounds quite sloppy; I would avoid unnecessarily vague terms like "thing" (or maybe even "basically") and directly describe what happens, in a concise way:

> You can expose your extension to Godot using a `.gdextension` file, which contains information about the dynamic library's location and the minimum required Godot version.

Author: makes sense.

> The job of a binding library is that we go the other way and we instead treat Godot itself like a library, so that we can have most of the interactions of the engine happen in our language of choice. In practice,  Godot is still going to be the host engine of our game, so we have to expose things back to Godot so that it can use and make available in the editor -- think of how you use the [`@export`](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/tutorials/scripting/gdscript/gdscript_exports.html) flags to expose bits and pieces of a Node to the editor UI with shiny buttons. that's what we're gonna do but much deeper.

Reviewer: The "using like a library" is OK, but I don't think going into `@export` is helpful here -- first, it doesn't really elaborate the library concept, and second, you have to assume that the reader is not familiar with exports at this point of reading. The last sentence is also not adding much.

I would just mention two things in this paragraph:

* Godot is the host (runs the process), gdext + user's Rust code is the library
* By using gdext, we can treat Godot like a library and interact with its API

Author: this part was a little awkward to write. got it a little shorter and removed the `@export` bit now.

```mermaid
flowchart TD
   gdp["Your Project in Godot"]
   --the editor looks for extensions to include-->
   gdext[".gdextension file with pointers to the library file"]
   -.Uses paths or symbolic links to reach your compiled library.->
   lib["libyour-project.so \nlibyour-project.dll \nlibyour-project.dylib"]
   --"the library is compiled into\n a readable format from the compiler"----
   proj["Your own library written in Rust"]

   proj ==your library makes nodes,\n components and another shenanigans\n available for Godot to use==> gdp

```

# About the extension

## Terminology

> To avoid confusion, here is an explanation of names and technologies you may encounter over time. This is what we will be referring to at the mention of the terms listed from here now on:

Reviewer: I don't see what the 2nd sentence adds. I would avoid unnecessary repetition to decrease reading time.

Author: should be shortened now. probably better.

- [**godot-rust**]: The entire project, encompassing Rust bindings for Godot 3 and 4, as well as related efforts (book, community, etc.).
- [**GDExtension**]: C API provided by Godot 4.
- [**GDNative**]: C API provided by Godot 3.
- [**gdext**] (lowercase): the Rust binding for GDExtension (Godot 4) -- what this book focuses on.
- [**gdnative**] (lowercase): the Rust binding for GDNative (Godot 3).

> - **Extension**: An extension is a C library developed using gdext. It can be loaded by Godot 4.

Reviewer: Nice additions, thanks! 🙂

Author: np :3

(sneakily hides the rickroll link away from "Extension")
